---
layout: post
title: Resume
category: resume  
---

#    Education

- 2004 - Macalester College, St. Paul, Minnesota  
    Bachelor of the Arts in Computer Science and Music  
    _magna cum laude_
- 2003 - School for International Training, Granada, Spain



<div class="left pad-right">
<h1>Fluent<br />In</h1>
PHP  <br />
HTML 4/5  <br />
CSS 3/SCSS  <br /> 
MySQL  <br />
FileMaker  <br />
Ruby/Rails 2/3  <br />
Unix shell - bash/sed/awk  <br />
</div>



<div class="left pad-right">
<h1>Proficient<br />In</h1>

Java/Processing  <br />
Javascript/Coffeescript  <br />
Applescript/Automator <br /><br />

Spanish  <br />
French  <br /><br />

Music notation  <br />
Guitar tablature
</div>



<div class="left pad-right">
<h1>Experienced<br />With</h1>

C/C++  <br />
Perl  <br />
Scheme/Lisp  <br />
SML  <br />
Prolog  <br />
MPI  <br />
Linda  <br />
FoxPro  <br />
</div>

<div class="clf"> </div>


#    Operating Systems

OS X >= 10.3  
Linux (Gentoo/Ubuntu/Debian)  
Windows (7, Vista, XP, 95, 3.1, DOS)  


#    Example Projects
- <http://renewarchitecture.com> - I did the page design/layout, and created a custom content management system using CSV files as the structure definition (PHP)
- <http://fluxproductions.net> - I did the page design/layout, and created a custom web-based content management back-end (PHP/MySQL)
- <http://lssnca.org> - I created a custom web-based content management back-end (Ruby/Rails)
- [This Site](http://donaldmerand.com/view/1330567537): Written from scratch in PHP. The custom CMS uses flat text files in a [markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) format combined with UNIX utilities for speed and simplicity.
- <http://advisor.explo.org> - A curriculum management system. handles teacher/advisor assignment, course creation, curriculum creation methods, and passing back and forth of working files. synchronizes with FileMaker management database at the school. (Ruby/Rails -- FileMaker)
- <http://forms.explo.org> - An online management system for enrollment forms. uses mysql as backend on the web, syncs with filemaker management database at the school. (PHP/MySQL -- FileMaker)


#    FileMaker
- Management systems for: faculty hiring, cori/sori checks, event planning, attendance, bus routing.
- Custom chart/graph system using fmp11 chart functions, allows dynamic creation of new graphs
- Custom reporting system, allows user-based report addition and categorization, passing of a variety of record contexts from other systems
- Inventory/Library system that can use barcodes and/or RFID
- Internal messaging application
- Merge letter/email application, allows for highly conditional templates, and generates FileMaker calculation code or HTML.
- Brainstorm application with a word-cloud visualization


#    Interests
_Music_: guitarist in several jazz and rock bands, recording and producing albums, vocalist in a church choir

_Sports_: black belt in tae kwon do, frisbee, volleyball, bicycling

_Other_: building and repairing guitars and bicycles, origami, travelling, cooking
